Greetings, Venerable Master and all the assembly!
When I was meditating while walking and sitting, I saw a
broken tree. It was broken, and I
thought, "Who was sitting there and
broke it?" Is
that a delusion or a thought? Yes, the
second thought: When I saw a carton of milk
that someone had finished drinking and left next to
my tent, a thought
arose, but it wasn't clearly formed into a clear
intention. I thought, "I'll tell someone to put it there,
no, don't leave it there,"
but I immediately
stopped myself. I beg you, Venerable Master, to teach
me so I may understand. When I see
a broken tree,
the thought arises, "Who broke the tree?" That's how it is in my
thinking. When a thought arises,
we follow it and think, "Who broke the
tree?" That's a
thought arising according to karma.
Continuing, if we say, "I must
find out who broke the tree," that
belongs to thinking, following a thought. Then, esteemed
disciples...  Do you understand this point clearly? When it only
refers to a single thought, meaning we don't have a deliberate
intention, it
automatically arises: "Who broke the tree?" Then we go back to that point, we return. This isn't what we're doing right now. What we're doing is this... we go back to it. Do you understand this point clearly, dear fellow practitioners? It's similar to the
case of the milk carton. Similarly,
we handle the situation with the milk carton: "Who left
this milk carton here?" That's
very dangerous, dear fellow practitioners. When
we follow a thought, we
die. For example, "Who broke
this tree?" If I catch them, they'll die! It
will follow like that. If the tree belongs
to our house, right, dear fellow
practitioners? Then it will arise. For example, "
This tree is the tree I just planted,
who broke it?"
The second thing is due to the
mind's attachment to worldly possessions, that is,
worldly possessions. Then it will continue with a thought: "
If I catch them, they'll die!" And then it continues...
Continuing on,
this is exactly the kind of thing that kid often comes over to
play. He's just making wild guesses and
running around saying all sorts of things,
right, dear fellow practitioners?
For example, when someone is practicing, they gather things together. There's a case where a tree breaks.
Yes, it breaks. That means when
they're proficient, yes, it breaks. If
they see a tree break,
they just deal with it.
This isn't even talking about the practice itself.
When you're practicing and
you see a tree break,
you don't continue, you
just continue your practice. But if
someone is already proficient in
this kind of practice, they have a very calm and focused way of handling it. They don't complain, they don't dwell on it, they just
deal with the situation. That person will
receive constant generosity, their heart will be filled with
joy when they see a tree break. Yes, the tree
has broken, and they just deal with the tree,
deal with the situation, dear fellow practitioners. But
that's just the theory I'm talking about later...  That's all there is to it.
But for now, the practice is still very
long, my esteemed friends, because
many of you follow the desires and
always act impulsively, without having a
calm mind. Because it runs
ahead, and we chase after it,
but it's already
ahead. It's not that the principles or the Dharma are ahead; it means that when we haven't
mastered the Dharma, the Dharma isn't
ahead, but ignorance and craving are. They
lead us until we become
proficient in this practice, contemplating the Dharma. Only then will the Dharma, the
wrathful Dharma, guide
us, my esteemed friends. So, let's
understand this so we can persevere in our
practice, right? Don't think that you'll achieve it in one or
two days; our minds are
very contradictory. Therefore, we need
time for meditation and
contemplation. It requires a lot of
time. So, I'm asking
how we can nurture this club so that
you all practice quickly. I'm asking for some
time to practice. I'm too old, almost dying, and I have
n't achieved anything yet, and
now...  We must quickly cultivate the ability of the monastic
communities to lead and
harmonize with each other, so that in
this life we ​​may fully accumulate the merits of lay practitioners
as taught by the Buddha, which is to support the monks in their
practice. Dear fellow practitioners,
any monastic community leader who has not yet achieved
harmony among the communities,
any leader who still thinks only of their own ideas,
cannot possibly uphold the Three Jewels. Entrusting the responsibility of upholding the Three Jewels to such a person will only lead to the destruction of the Three Jewels. They cannot be a
support for the majority. Therefore, I sincerely
hope that you understand
this kind of practice. When you
succeed in cultivating harmony,
you will create the conditions to enter the monastic life again, just
like Duyen Yen did.
At that time, your mind will be joyful in the
practice, not attached to
worldly affairs as it is
now. Remember, when
our minds generate conditions,
they generate joy.  We may be
happy about this, but with a little merit we accumulate, we'll be happy about
something else, my dear fellow practitioners. It's
not that I don't like practicing
that; liking or disliking it depends on the
joy in our hearts.
[Music]
[Applause]